[Music]
10 tips that could save your life
you never know what dangers lurk around
the corner some of them can even
threaten your life we all hope such
things won't happen to us but it's
better to be prepared even for the most
unforeseen events is hitting a crocodile
a good idea how can snow be dangerous in
this video bright side will tell you
about 10 rules of survival that may save
your life one day number 10
make a fire from a phone battery if you
were lost far away from civilization you
can use your gadget to start a fire and
keep warm or to send a signal to a
rescue team many smartphones and tablets
have lithium batteries piercing such a
battery with something sharp don't
forget to check if you have mobile
coverage before destroying the battery
will cause a chemical reaction all you
need is to prepare enough firewood in
advance
number 9 escape a rip current there is a
very dangerous phenomenon in the sea or
ocean called rip current or simply rip
it's a strong usually narrow current of
water moving directly away from the
shore it can be recognized by a
different color it's often muddier and
cloudier and may be covered by a river
of foam in experienced swimmers caught
in a rip are in great danger because the
survival instinct tells them to swim to
the shore as quickly as possible but if
you swim directly to the beach you will
only move away from them so your best
course of action is to swim diagonally
or even parallel to the shore until you
get out of the current which shouldn't
take long as they are never too wide
don't panic will soon be telling this
amazing story to your friends back at
the hotel
number eight run away from a crocodile
crocodiles run much faster than humans
both in water and on land when moving in
a straight line but because of their
short legs an elongated body they are
pretty clumsy on corners paka dolls
don't pursue a play they are
consistently losing sight of so you
should find yourself chased by a
crocodile run in zigzags to escape
change your direction as often as you
can and soon the crocodile will lose
interest in here however if you are in
the middle of the river and you see a
crocodile swimming towards you don't try
to swim to the shore you won't make it
on time instead try to hit the crocodile
in the eye or the nose if you are lucky
the crocodile will get scared and swim
away well if your lucky number seven
escaped from a bull if you're standing
in the middle of a field and the bolt is
running towards you don't panic and
don't run bulls are way faster instead
take something off for example a hat
wait until the bull comes close and at
the last moment throw the hat in a
different direction again if you are
lucky balls attention will be switched
to that object by the way it doesn't
matter what color the hat is it's not
true that balls react to red actually
they're colorblind to red they only
react to fast and sudden movement number
six treat a jellyfish sting a jellyfish
sting can cause neurogenic shock an
allergic reaction and a strong
intoxication of the body here's what you
need to do to avoid or relieve the
unpleasant consequences of such an
encounter one clean the wound
immediately and carefully get rid of the
remains of the tentacles to avoid a new
sting
don't touch tentacles with your bare
hands you can use a credit card to
scrape them off to wash the sting area
with saltwater never use fresh water for
this because it activates
stinging cells three to remove toxins
make a compress of apple cider vinegar
or alcohol a solution of baking soda can
also be used for soak the stung area in
hot water for at least 30 minutes 5
drink plenty of water and visit a doctor
water will help you recover faster and
the doctor will prescribe the necessary
medicine number 5 remember the survival
rules of three the rules of three are
rules that show the average survival
time of a person under certain
conditions three minutes without air or
in icy water 3 hours without shelter
unless you're in icy water 3 days
without water if you are in a shelter
from the harsh environment 3 weeks
without food provided you have shelter
and water without serious damage to help
the main point of these rules is to
concentrate on the most immediate
problem first and prioritize better for
example there is no need to go searching
for food if you are shivering from cold
you have to solve the hypothermia
problem first otherwise you won't have
to worry about food number 4 don't eat
snow when you're thirsty some people
think it's a good idea to eat snow to
quench thirst yet it's better not to do
this in a critical situation because
snow will cool your body you will waste
additional energy and freeze more
quickly rescuers recommend melting snow
first before drinking it this way you
will spend less energy
number three how to put out a grease
fire in a matter of seconds a frying pan
left unattended on the stove can catch
fire this happens if the oil gets too
hot what you should do is turn the heat
off and cover the pan with the lid to
cut the oxygen supply the fire will
consume all the oxygen quickly and die
out itself never ever pour water on
burning oil it will make the fire bigger
and stronger and the oil will splash in
all directions also don't move the pan
as you might accidentally spill the oil
on yourself and get severely burned
[Music]
number two glue a wound if you are doing
repairs at home and accidentally cut
your finger you can use superglue when
you're outta bandages superglue helps
immensely with the pain from paper cuts
and it's also beneficial for keeping
dirt out of your cut until you find some
alcohol to disinfect it properly however
if your cut is deep superglue can be
harmful because it's toxic for deep skin
tissues this case you better see a
doctor
number one don't remove an object from a
deep cut many people believe that when
you get cut it's necessary to remove the
shard and clear the wound urgently well
it's not entirely true if the wound is
deep
you should never remove the object the
best thing you can do is do nothing just
stabilize the object and have a doctor
remove it otherwise the wound will start
bleeding normally we don't say things
like this but we hope you'll never have
to use these tips stay safe do you know
any other helpful survival tips share
them in the comment section below don't
forget to hit the like button below the
video and click subscribe to join us on
the bright side of life
[Music]